well Israel's parliament has voted to
approve a bill that would designate the
un's agency for Palestinian refugees as
a terrorist organization the bill also
calls for a complete severing of ties
from unra Israel previously said unrb
employees took part in the October 7th
attacks but an independent review
concluded there's no evidence to back
that claim the bill still needs to clear
several more steps before being
implemented
well Chris uh gunnis is a former unra
spokesman and he joins us now live from
London sir a good day uh want to get
your reaction first and foremost to the
Israeli knesset approving this draft
bill on declaring UNR a terrorist
organization well there is absolutely no
evidence as provided by the independent
Colona report which investigated these
allegations it was very clear that
Israel has produced abs absolutely no
evidence for these allegations so the
Israeli parliamentary knesset moves are
based on the mother of all lies as far
as I'm concerned there is no evidence
against unra and let me be clear it is
the UN General Assembly the community of
civilized Nations that gives anra its
mandate and only the UN General Assembly
can change that mandate so it is not a
question of one UN member State that's
gone Rogue that decides that it's going
to end the Mandate of unra that's not
how it works so I'm afraid to say that
unr's life-saving work given what we saw
yesterday must and will continue and
that is a determination which ultimately
rests with the general assembly of the
United Nations where there are nearly
200 member states and I I want to talk
to you about those overnight horrific
scenes that we simply you know cannot be
unseen uh the attack on the makeshift
ATT tank Camp housing internally
displaced persons that was recently
established I understand near an UNR
Warehouse because it was designated as a
safe area I mean at this stage does the
responsibility to protect the
responsibility to prevent atrocities
even apply anymore to
Gaza well let's talk about the
responsibilities of the
153 State parties to the genocide
convention let's talk about the
responsibilities of the
124 signatories to the Rome statute
which sets out the rules of War
according to to the international
criminal court now the icj just a few
days ago made it very clear through its
provisional instructions that Israel has
to call off its Rafa offensive just
three days later what do we have we have
this outrageous attack it was clearly
disproportionate it was clearly
indiscriminate and it took place in an
area designated as a safe Zone by the
Israeli Army I hope and I'm sure that
the United Nations agencies and other
intern AAL workers working with
Palestinian partners are gathering
evidence and I would urge that evidence
to be sent immediately to the ha to the
international court of justice which has
made it clear that people need to be
prot be protected from these genocidal
attacks and I would hope that the 153
State parties to the genocide convention
who have an obligation to make sure that
that convention is implemented in full I
hope it is urging robust action from
that court and as far as the ICC is
concerned Kareem Khan the prosecutor at
the ICC has made it clear that he would
like to see arrest warrants for yoav
gallant and Benjamin Netanyahu they
would have been completely briefed on
this attack they will know that there
were hundreds and hundreds of people
innocent civilians in makeshift tented
uh areas near to a un facility when this
attack took place they would know that
the military Advantage killing two Hamas
operatives which apparently is what they
say they have done does not justify an
attack there has to be um a
distinguishing between combatants and
non-combatants the Weaponry used has to
be proportionate to the military
Advantage none of that in this case was
followed and I hope that the ICC and the
icj will act immediately and robustly
because this is a blatant violation of
their own rules rules of War what is
become now painfully clear is that anra
uh uh places are also no longer safe
havens I mean the the organization is in
the crosshairs but also the schools and
all the uh other establishments that
were previously run by unra are now a
fair game it
seems well this is the tragedy that
hundreds of thousands of people thought
that they could take refuge under the
light blue un flag they thought that if
they came to International facilities
that they would be safe and what has
Israel done it is said no nowhere is
safe in Gaza and that's why it's so
important that the offensive must be
called off immediately and that
International Justice must run its
course I'm sure that the three judges at
the pre-trial chamber in um in the ICC
that kareim Khan is asking um for these
arrest warrants against Gant and
Netanyahu I'm sure those three judges
are as horrified as the rest of the
world um about these attacks and let us
pray that in the most appalling
circumstances what we're now seeing is
pressure building up for these arrest
warrants to go out and let us pray that
those countries those members of the
Civilized nations in the world will
realize that they have responsibilities
to implement these conventions which
they have signed up to so let us pray
that we're now going to move forward
with arrest warrants against golant and
Netanyahu they need now to become wanted
war criminals and let us pray that the
international court of justice will
realize that we're now seeing blatant
disregard for the genocide convention
there is no exception to the genocide
convention you can't say well Hamas was
sending Rockets from this area no there
are no excuses this is the crime of
crimes it Brooks no exception and we
have to be very clear about this it's
not good enough for the Israelis to turn
around and say well we killed two Hamas
people they fired Rockets into Tel Aviv
no the genocide convention is absolute
and these provisional measures Brook no
exception Chris GIS former anrat
spokesperson joining us from London
thank you
sir thank you so
much make sure to subscribe to our
channel to get the latest news from Al